RHIO AGENT STUDIO — INTEGRATION GUIDE

What this file is
A short technical note for operators who host RHIO themselves. The full guides are in the
repository (START-HERE-ID.md, DEPLOY-ID.md, COOLIFY-ID.md) and in the Docs on the site.

Current product state
Live: character studio (25 procedural characters, three.js), agent builder, eight skills,
workspace storage per account, task history, export / import, share links, schedules, the
pay-per-run marketplace in preview credits, and wallet-only sign-in (Sign-In with Ethereum
on Robinhood Chain).
Built and off until an operator configures it: live AI on a server-side provider, credit
top-ups in USDG, earnings claims, holder tiers and holder rewards.
Not live: the RHIO token is not deployed. Rewards pay nothing. Preview credits have no
monetary value. Without an AI provider every skill returns a labelled workflow sample that
does not browse, summarise or execute anything.

AI providers (server-side secrets only, never in the browser)
The server uses the first one that is configured, and only when AI_ENABLED=true:
1. ANTHROPIC_API_KEY                       Claude (official SDK), web search for research
2. OPENAI_API_KEY + OPENAI_MODEL           OpenAI Responses API, web search for research
3. AI_BASE_URL + AI_API_KEY + AI_MODEL     any OpenAI-compatible Chat Completions API
4. AI_GATEWAY_URL + AI_GATEWAY_KEY         your own gateway (contract below)
Every live run is debited in credits and counted against per-account and studio-wide daily
limits that are enforced in the database. A failed run returns its credits. Set a spending
limit at the provider as well: a timeout does not guarantee that the provider stopped.

Gateway contract
The server sends POST JSON over HTTPS:
{
  "version": 1,
  "taskId": "UUID",
  "agent": {"name":"...","personality":"...","tone":"Friendly",
            "language":"English","skills":["research"]},
  "skill": "research",
  "prompt": "User task",
  "maxOutputTokens": 1800,
  "allowExternalActions": false
}
Headers: Authorization: Bearer <AI_GATEWAY_KEY>, Idempotency-Key: <taskId>
Expected response: {"output":"Plain text result, including source URLs when used"}
The request times out after 45 seconds. Redirects are rejected and plain http is refused.
Output must be nonempty text; at most 40,000 characters are kept. HTML is never rendered.

The gateway must implement the selected skill itself: research retrieves sources, document
reads the supplied text, write drafts content. It must respect the personality, tone,
language and output limit, treat pasted documents as untrusted content, and take no
external actions. Do not present a generic text model as a web-research service.
When someone else's published agent is run, its instructions must not be revealed in the
output; the server also withholds an answer that copies them.

Storage and access
Agents, runs and credit balances live in a D1 (SQLite) database, scoped to the signed-in
account. API writes require a matching Origin. IDs are random UUIDs. Archiving an agent is
reversible. Share links carry the agent's configuration in the URL fragment, so never put
secrets in instructions.

Credits
New accounts start with free credits (STARTING_CREDITS, default 25). A workflow sample
costs 5; a live run is priced by skill. The balance can never go below zero: the debit and
the run are written in one transaction, and reusing a request ID returns the existing
result without a second debit. Granted and bought credits can never be withdrawn.

Chain
Robinhood Chain (mainnet 4663, testnet 46630). Addresses come from the server
environment and are published at /api/chain; nothing is hard-coded in the client. The
server holds no key that can transfer funds. Token balances are always read by the server
from the chain, never taken from the browser.

Characters
Characters are built at runtime from primitives by the RHIO engine (three.js). The first
generation GLB models in /models are kept for provenance and are no longer loaded.
RobotExpressive (in /models): Tomas Laulhe / Quaternius, CC0 1.0, modified by Don McCurdy,
from the three.js examples repository.
